# TRMM-big-data-analysis
Precipitation patterns and rainfall forecast are of high interest in many real-world applications.
This paper presents a detailed analysis of TRMM big data utilizing the DeltaRho D&R computational environment. We study the spatial patterns of precipitation frequency, rainfall intensity, and its variability, and the seasonal behaviors of monthly and yearly mean rain rates. Extensively utilizing DeltaRho computational environment, the STL+ model is fitted to log-transformed monthly rain rates on all 460,800 locations, demonstrating that a significantly larger portion of variation in the data can be explained by the seasonal component than the trend component. Further spatial correlation analysis of the remainder components provided a strong evidence that the spatial features have an additional explanatory power of data, given that the seasonal variables are included in the model. Then spatio-temporal logistic models are constructed to explain the variation of 3-hr precipitation occurrence in automation for 460,800 locations, followed by model diagnostics and model inference. The final selected models on more than 75% locations achieved a great explanatory power quantified by McFadden's R^2. Finally, more advanced predictive models-- two-stage logistic regression model, spatial-temporal autologistic regression model, and neighbor recurrent logistic regression model-- are developed to forecast the probability of 3-hr precipitation occurrence at all locations. Overall, two-stage model and neighbor recurrent model displayed significantly higher predictive power quantified by the area under ROC.

##STL modeling on the monthly rainfall data


[Shiny app for STL decomposition of the monthly rainfall data](https://qi-liu.shinyapps.io/stl_app/)
